<h1 style="text-align: center;">Web Content Accessibility Guidelines</h1>br />In 1999 the Web Accessibility Initiative, a project by the World Wide Web<br />Consortium (W3C), published the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines WCAG 1.0.<br />On 11 December 2008, the WAI released the WCAG 2.0 as a Recommendation. WCAG<br />2.0 aims to be up to date and more technology neutral. Though web designers can choose<br />either standard to follow, the WCAG 2.0 have been widely accepted as the definitive<br />guidelines on how to create accessible websites. Governments are steadily adopting the<br />WCAG 2.0 as the accessibility standard for their own websites.<br />WCAG 1.0<br />The WCAG 1.0 was published and became a W3C recommendation on 5 May 1999. They<br />have since been superseded by WCAG 2.0.<br />WCAG 1.0 consists of 14 guidelines&mdash;each of which describes a general principle of<br />accessible design. Each guideline covers a basic theme of web accessibility and is<br />associated with one or more checkpoints that describe how to apply that guideline to<br />particular webpage features.<br /> Guideline 1: Provide equivalent alternatives to auditory and visual content<br /> Guideline 2: Don&rsquo;t rely on colour alone<br /> Guideline 3: Use markup and style sheets, and do so properly<br /> Guideline 4: Clarify natural language usage<br /> Guideline 5: Create tables that transform gracefully<br /> Guideline 6: Ensure that pages featuring new technologies transform gracefully<br /> Guideline 7: Ensure user control of time sensitive content changes<br /> Guideline 8: Ensure direct accessibility of embedded user interfaces<br /> Guideline 9: Design for device independence<br /> Guideline 10: User interim solutions<br /> Guideline 11: Use W3C technologies and guidelines<br /> Guideline 12: Provide context and orientation information<br /> Guideline 13: Provide clear navigation mechanisms<br /> Guideline 14: Ensure that documents are clear and simple<br />Each of the in total 65 WCAG 1.0 checkpoints has an assigned priority level based on the<br />checkpoint's impact on accessibility:<br /> Priority 1: Web developers must satisfy these requirements, otherwise it will be<br />impossible for one or more groups to access the Web content. Conformance to this<br />level is described as A.<br /> Priority 2: Web developers should satisfy these requirements, otherwise some<br />groups will find it difficult to access the Web content. Conformance to this level is<br />described as AA or Double-A.<br /> Priority 3: Web developers may satisfy these requirements to make it easier for<br />some groups to access the Web content. Conformance to this level is described<br />as AAA or Triple-A.<br />WCAG Samurai<br />In February 2008, The WCAG Samurai, a group of developers independent of the W3C,<br />published corrections for, and extensions to, the WCAG 1.0.<br />WCAG 2.0<br />WCAG 2.0 was published as a W3C Recommendation on 11 December 2008. It consists of<br />twelve guidelines (untestable) organized under four principles (websites must<br />be perceivable, operable, understandable, and robust). Each guideline has testable<br />success criteria (61 in all). The W3C's Techniques for WCAG 2.0 is a list of techniques that<br />support authors to meet the guidelines and success criteria. The techniques are<br />periodically updated whereas the principles, guidelines and success criteria are stable and<br />do not change.<br />Principles<br />Perceivable<br />Information and user interface components must be presentable to users in ways they can<br />perceive.<br /> Guideline 1.1: Provide text alternatives for any non-text content so that it can be<br />changed into other forms people need, such as large print, braille, speech, symbols or<br />simpler language.<br /> Guideline 1.2: Time-based media: Provide alternatives for time-based media.<br /> Guideline 1.3: Create content that can be presented in different ways (for example<br />simpler layout) without losing information or structure.<br /> Guideline 1.4: Make it easier for users to see and hear content including separating<br />foreground from background.<br />Operable<br />User interface components and navigation must be operable.<br /> Guideline 2.1: Make all functionality available from a keyboard.<br /> Guideline 2.2: Provide users enough time to read and use content.<br /> Guideline 2.3: Do not design content in a way that is known to cause seizures.<br /> Guideline 2.4: Provide ways to help users navigate, find content, and determine<br />where they are.<br />Understandable<br />Information and the operation of user interface must be understandable.<br /> Guideline 3.1: Make text content readable and understandable.<br /> Guideline 3.2: Make web pages appear and operate in predictable ways.<br /> Guideline 3.3: Help users avoid and correct mistakes.<br />Robust<br />Content must be robust enough that it can be interpreted reliably by a wide variety of user<br />agents, including assistive technologies.<br /> Guideline 4.1.: Maximize compatibility with current and future user agents, including<br />assistive technologies.<br />WCAG 2.0 uses the same three levels of conformance (A, AA, AAA) as WCAG 1.0, but has<br />redefined them. The WCAG working group maintains an extensive list of web accessibility<br />techniques and common failure cases for WCAG 2.0.<br />Criticism of WAI guidelines<br />There has been criticism of the W3C process, claiming that it does not sufficiently put the<br />user at the heart of the process. There was a formal objection to WCAG's original claim that<br />WCAG 2.0 will address requirements for people with learning disabilities and cognitive<br />limitations headed by Lisa Seeman and signed by 40 organisations and people. In articles<br />such as "WCAG 2.0: The new W3C guidelines evaluated", "To Hell with WCAG 2.0" and<br />"Testability Costs Too Much", the WAI has been criticised for allowing WCAG 1.0 to get<br />increasingly out of step with today's technologies and techniques for creating and<br />consuming web content, for the slow pace of development of WCAG 2.0, for making the<br />new guidelines difficult to navigate and understand, and other argued failings.<br />In Spain, UNE 139803 is the norm entrusted to regulate web accessibility. This standard is<br />based on Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0.</p>

<li><a href="internet_security.html">Internet Security</a></li>
<li><a href="oop_vs_sp.html">Object Oriented Programming vs Structured Programming</a></li>
<li><a href="digital_signature.html">Digital Signature</a></li>

